---
layout: post
title:      "Margaret Hamilton"
date:       2018-12-11 18:05:23 +0000
permalink:  margaret_hamilton
---


I  was recently talking to  friend who had interviewed for a few positions as a chemical engineer. We talked a little bit about the job interviews he's had before landing his job. One of the questions they asked caught him off guard. The question was "who inspires you?". Although that may not seem relevant to a job I think it can be a revealing question for employers. Companies want employees who are passionate and inspired about their work. One way that we find that inspiration is through the stories of others doing what we care about. So this got me thinking about who in software engineering inspires me. Most people even outside of the coding world have heard of famous tech leaders like Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerburg. People like Steve Jobs have a cult like status in the minds of many. Even though he did very little coding or engineering he is associated with success in the tech field. He understood what people wanted in a computer design and used that ingenuity to build a brand larger than life. I wanted to find someone who paved the way for technologies like the Internet and our modern operating systems. There are many to choose from but I was intrigued by a woman named Margaret Hamilton.

Hamilton was instrumental in the creation of the Apollo Space Program and is credited with coining the term "Software Engineering". She went to college to major in Math and took classes in Philosophy. She fell in love with abstract mathematics and this eventually led her to the newly discovered world of computer software. After finsihing her studies at MIT she worked on various government contracts. She played a role in the SAGE project which was computer software designed to assist with weather tracking and missle defense during the Cold War. Her remarkable work led her to NASA. During the Apollo 11 mission her ingenius contributions allowed for the computer systems to keep up the tasks at hand. In particular, she was able to design the computer systems to compute asynchrously and handle the huge load of computing tasks that are required for space flight. Without her work the computer would have no way to handle the errors that came with being overloaded. After her adventures at NASA she founded her own business and developed reliable software. She is also famous for coining the term "Software Engineering". At the time computer software did not have a place in academia and computer programmers lacked respect. However, the term caught on and is now used to describe one of the most ubiquitous tasks in the modern world. 

You can read a bit more about Hamilton [here](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Margaret-Hamilton-American-computer-scientist).
