---
layout: post
title:      "The Dev Journey So Far"
date:       2018-06-29 19:29:12 +0000
permalink:  the_dev_journey_so_far
---

I am so grateful to be finishing up my second week at Flatiron because it has reassured me that I have found a craft that I enjoy and helps me to feel a little more competent with each day. Quite recently, I finished up a Bachelor's in Psychology/Systems from a university in Indiana. The Systems curriculum is a 40-credit hour add-on designed to educate a student of any major with the tech field, particularly from a management standpoint. I had the opportunity to take an introductory programming class that culminated in me creating a mini version of Risk written in Python. I liked it alot and was even offered a TA-ship the following semester. Unfortunately, my full schedule did not allow me to take many more computer science classes. Luckily through the Systems program I was introduced to some other languages like JavaScript, as well as software development methodology like "Agile" and "Scrum".

During my Systems capstone I took a course sequence that resulted in me deciding to change my career trajectory. In the fall semester, we met with a customer connected to our University who was interested in designing an e-commerce mobile/web app. Our team spent dozens of hours drawing up wireframes, laying out system requirements and interviewing stakeholders. It culminated in a professional presentation to the customer. The presentation went smoothly despite our professor doing his best to poke holes (and yes, he did flesh out one or two issues) in our work. The next semester we built it! We had a mixture of majors who brought different skillsets, but we all had to pitch in code-wise. I worked on a functionality that allowed users to search for items based on their location and create a small description page for their posted items. It took a lot of help from the professor and our team's leader, a senior computer science major with some big-name internships, but it turned out well. The highlight was presenting the web app to the customer and his wife. It was great to see their reactions to what we built and for us to take pride in it as a team.

Shortly after that, I decided not to pursue grad school like planned but instead become a developer.  I decided that I needed to get a little more immersed in coding before taking the plunge into the tech job market. Other than the introductory class I took, my coding experience was a bit haphazard focusing on using code to solve specific problems in a project. After messing around with Ruby and browsing some different options I concluded that Flatiron’s curriculum would be the best option for me. So far, I am grateful for the path that I am on and excited to see where coding will take me.

